# Structural Programming
## Exercise 1

***

### 1. Development Environment

For writing programs, development environments are often used. The process of writing a program is as follows:

- The source code is entered through the keyboard.

- Then the program is translated,

  - This creates an executable program, i.e., a program written in the computer's language.

The development environment consists of multiple programs that facilitate the overall development of a program:

- Text editor

- Compiler

- Debugger

- Integration of libraries with functions

- Linker

#### 1.1. Integrated Development Environments (IDE)
All these elements of the development environment are integrated into Integrated Development Environments (IDEs). An example of an IDE used in this course is `CLion`.

### 2. `CLion` (installation, license, first program)

The video tutorial (available at this [link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q22pBoHHHEE)) demonstrates the following:

- Downloading the installation file for CLion
- Installing CLion on a machine with the Windows operating system
- Registering with JetBrains
- Applying for a student license
- Activating the student license in CLion
- Creating the first project in CLion
- Instructions for structuring your project and adding new `.cpp` files to the project
- Running a C++ program
- Debugging with breakpoints
- The CLion menu

### 3. Homework Tasks

Below are several tasks that you should try to complete at home. By completing them, you will be prepared for successful work in the upcoming laboratory exercises.

#### 3.1 Task 1

Try to create a new project with a `.cpp` file and enter the following program text:

```cpp
#include<iostream>
using namespace std;

int main () {
    cout << "Hello, how are you?" << endl;
    return 0;
}
```

- Execute the program.
- What do you get as a result?

If you made a mistake while typing the text, correct it and execute it again. Intentionally introduce an error into the text.

Execute it again!

What happens now?

#### 3.2. Task 2
In the program text, add the marked line:

```cpp
#include<iostream>
using namespace std;

int main () {
    cout << ""Hello, how are you?" << endl;
    // Add this line
    cout << "Is something bothering you?" << endl;
    return 0;
}
```

What is the result of execution now?